{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2709
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Bold;\f2\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;
\f3\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f4\froman\fcharset0 Times-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl288\slmult1\sb320\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$Scr_H::2><$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\b\fs32 Merchandise Trade\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_H::2><!$Scr_Ps::0>
\f2\fs26 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs32 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
As shown in Table 2, Germany is the world's leading merchandise exporter with a 9.5% share of the world market in 2007. China is a close second at 8.7%. And the United States is the world's largest importer in merchandise trade, with 14.2% of total world imports. Germany comes next with 7.4%. China ranked third in imports in world merchandise trade. Japan ranked fourth in both exports and imports in the world merchandise trade. The United Kingdom, like the U.S., has a larger import share than export share. \
By counting the EU as an economic unit, the extra-EU (27) exports ranked no.1 in the world in 2007, commanding 16.4% of world merchandise trade, while its imports ranked only next to the U.S., with 18.4% of world merchandise trade.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl288\slmult1\sb320\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 <$Scr_H::2><$Scr_Ps::0>
\f4\b\fs32 Commercial Services Trade\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_H::2><!$Scr_Ps::0>
\f2\fs26 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs32 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Commercial services include transportation, travel, communication, construction, insurance, financial, computer, information, personal, cultural, recreational, and other business services. They also include royalties and license fees. Like merchandise trades, the leading exporters and importers of commercial services are industrialized countries. Table 3 shows that the United States leads the way with a 13.9% share of the world's commercial exports in 2007; the United Kingdom is a distant second with 8.3%, followed by Germany with 6.3%. 
\fs24 \

\fs32 The top two countries in merchandise imports are also the top two in commercial services imports. Again, the U.S. leads the way with 10.9%, while Germany has a share of 8.1% in 2007. 
\fs24 \

\fs32 For the United States, financial services led all commercial services exports, followed by passenger fares, international student fees, overseas campus receipts, software sales, and movie distribution, computer services, scientific and medical research contracts, air freight, ocean shipping services, and telecom exports.
\fs24 \

\fs32 A great deal of trade information is provided by world organizations. The WTO's International Trade Statistics provides interactive access to the most up-to-date WTO trade statistics and also annual trade statistics on trade leaders, sectors and products, regions, LDCs, etc. The UN Commodity Trade Statistics Database (UN Comtrade) provides commodity trade data for all available countries and areas since 1962, containing almost 700 million records. The International Monetary Fund (IMF) publishes Direction of Trade Statistics. Also, the International Trade Center - which is a technical cooperation agency of UNCTAD and WTO for operational, enterprise-oriented aspects of trade development - provides detailed International Trade Statistics by product group and country as well as national and sectoral trade performances by country. 
\fs24 \
\

\fs32 \

\fs24 \
\
}