{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2709
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The Japanese economy is an industrialized, free-market economy. It ranks fourth in the world in GDP -  after the U.S., China, and India - in terms of international purchasing power parity. With cooperation between government and industry, a strong work ethic, mastery of industrial technology, and a small defense outlay (1% of GDP compared to 4.7% of GDP of the US defense expenditure budget), Japan has managed to become the second most technologically-powerful economy in the world. 
\fs24 \

\fs32 Japan has experienced spectacular growth in the past. In the 1960s, it had an average of 10% 10 annual real GDP growth. However, its growth rate fell to an average of 5% in the 1970s and further to 4% in the 1980s. Over-investment and speculative excesses from stock and real estate markets created a "bubble economy" which finally burst in a stock market crash in 1989. Growth slowed dramatically in the 1990s averaging just 1.7%. During this period, Japan experienced a prolonged period of deflation. The government's efforts to revive economic growth in recent years have been met with little success, partly because of the recession in the U.S., Europe, and other Asian countries. Since 2004, though, the economy has begun to improve and calm the fears of deflation in prices and slow growth of economic activity. 
\fs24 \

\fs32 Japan experienced periodic negative growth to its GDP in the past decade and in 1993-95, 1997- 1999, and 2001-02, the Japanese economy had actual contraction. Since 1998, it has experienced a prolonged period of deflation, where its nominal GDP growth rate has been lower than its real growth rate.
\fs21\fsmilli10667 \up10  
\fs24 \up0 \

\fs32 Japan has few natural resources. Its industry depends heavily on imported raw materials and fuels. Its agricultural sector is highly subsidized and protected. Japan is nearly self-sufficient in rice, but it must import about 50% of other grain and fodder crops. It has one of the world's largest fishing fleets producing nearly 15% of the global catch. 
\fs24 \

\fs32 The Japanese economy is highly productive and has earned a reputation for the high quality of many of its export goods. Its productivity is lower in areas such as agriculture, distribution, and services. One notable feature of the Japanese economy is the closely-knit groups called keiretsu which hold suppliers, manufacturers, and distributors together. Critics have charged that this creates anti-competitive practices. Another feature is that most corporations are reluctant to lay off workers in times of recession. This lifetime employment feature provides security to workers but renders its economy less flexible in adjusting to new business conditions. Both features have been eroding and outsourcing and layoffs have become more common. The booming economy of Japan in the 1980s produced excessively high wages and real estate prices. With the rise of other Asian economies such as China, Japan could no longer compete in low-skill, labor-intensive products. \
On the high-skill side, Japan lagged behind the information revolution led by the United States. With its high real wage rate, many Japanese firms moved their operations abroad, creating a \'93hollow economy." It has been very painful for Japan to adjust downward. Banks were loaded with bad debts and its relatively rigid economy lacked the flexibility necessary to adjust rapidly to new situations. In the early 1990s, Japan's unemployment rate was close to 2% but it has since increased, reaching 5.4% in July 2009.
\fs24 \

\fs32 Japan has persistently run trade surpluses in goods and services. It is an export-oriented economy. Persistent trade surpluses in goods and services have contributed to Japan's current account surpluses. As one of the largest international lenders, Japan has amassed huge foreign exchange re- serves with vast amounts originating from the United States. Its foreign exchange reserves reached $1019 billion in June 2009. 
\fs24 \

\fs32 Japan's demographic trend is highly unfavorable. Its huge aging population will be a burden to the economy. Japan has the highest longevity in the world. Its life expectancy is 85, compared with 79 in the U.S. Moreover, it has a very low birth rate, eight per thousand per year, relative to 13 in the U.S. The fertility rate - the number of children born per woman during her lifetime - fell below 1.3 in 2003, down from 3.65 in 1950. By 2024, the median age in Japan will have increased by seven years to fifty and will be twelve years higher than the median age in the United States (See Farrell, et al. (2005)). Fig. 6 depicts the gloomy demographic trend projected by Japan's Institute of Population and Social Security Research (IPSS). By the year 2050, about one-third of Japan's population will be at least 65 years old and only about 11% will be under the age of 15 (Moffett (2005)).
\fs24 \

\fs32 With retired households outnumbering households in their prime saving years, the national savings rate will fall drastically. Moreover, younger Japanese people are saving much less than their elders. The investment returns on Japanese saving is low since most Japanese workers put their funds in the low-yielding accounts of the national postal savings system. The expected reduction in saving coupled with low investment returns will slow down the rate of wealth accumulation and eventually cause a reduction in wealth. As a result, the standard of living will decline. Japan has historically run large current-account surpluses. This has enabled countries with current account deficits to borrow. As the world's major savers retire, major borrowing countries such as the United States could be severely affected. 
\fs24 \

\fs32 Japan has another long-term problem: huge government debt. As shown in Fig. 7, Japan has had consecutive annual budget deficits since 1993, reaching close to 8% of its GDP in 2002, but has since trended down. With a persistent budget decit, Japan\'92s government debt as a percent of GDP steadily increased in the 1990s and the early 2000s. In 2008, the ratio exceeded 170%, which is the highest figure among all developed countries.
\fs24 \
}