{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2709
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Today's world economy is entwined. International trade in goods, services, and financial assets has grown rapidly. Since factors of production and technologies are different among nations, each country has its own comparative advantages in the production of certain goods and services. Moreover, consumers in different nations have unique incomes and tastes. International trade creates world markets for goods and services by allowing suppliers and demanders to interact. Efficient producers can enlarge their market shares, giving consumers more competitive goods to choose. As a result, the world economy becomes more efficient and its production and consumption sets get larger. Trade facilitates world economic development and raises the overall standard of living. 
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs32 Since World War II (WWII), world trade in goods and services has grown substantially. There are a number of reasons for these developments: 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f2 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0\fs32 	1.	\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The world economy recovered from the devastation of WWII. World GDP has grown at an average annual rate of 3.5% over the past thirty years. The development and industrialization that have driven this renewed growth have also created increased demands and supplies of primary and intermediate inputs and final goods and services. \
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	2.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Technological change has helped to shrink barriers in space and time. Containerization and air cargo developments have drastically reduced transportation costs and the time needed to ship goods to foreign destinations. \
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	3.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
At the end of WWII, many nations wanted to prevent the recurrence of the Great Depression of the 1930s by promoting multilateral trade agreements. The General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) was signed in 1947. Between 1947 and 1994, eight rounds of multilateral trade negotiations were completed. As a result, the average tariff on industrial products was reduced from roughly 40% to 3.8% and world trade grew fourteen-fold. The eighth and last round of GATT negotiation, also called the Uruguay Round, involved 123 nations and created the World Trade Organization (WTO). The basic principles of the original GATT are embedded in the WTO, and since its formation, regular Ministerial Conferences have been held to further promote trade liberalization. \
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	4.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991 and the adoption of a market economy in China have led to a rapid expansion of capitalism in the world economy. This has allowed the world's capital to access a vast amount of inexpensive labor resources. Further, as the threat to capitalism has declined, international capital flows have increased, and the world economy has achieved a more efficient allocation of resources. World trade in goods, services, and financial assets has been greatly enhanced. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	5.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Regional economic integration, exemplified by the European Union (EU), the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), and Mercosur has greatly bolstered trade at the regional level. 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	6.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Recent advances in telecommunications, computer technology, the internet, and other technologies have created an information revolution. As a result, information has become an increasingly important and transferable commodity, further facilitating international trade. 
\f2\fs24 <!$Scr_Ps::0>}