{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2709
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The United States is the largest economy in the world in terms of GDP. In 2008, its GDP exceeded $14 trillion. The U.S. is one of the richest countries in the world. Its per capita PPP-based GDP was $46,859, which is the highest among all major countries, and is trailing Qatar ($85,868), Luxembourg ($82,306), Norway ($53,451), Singapore ($51,142), and Brunei ($50,117). It is also the most technologically powerful economy in the world. It has deep and liquid financial markets and a sophisticated banking system. Its capitalistic market-oriented economy allows private individuals and business firms a great deal of freedom in making economic decisions. The U.S. excels in computers, chemicals, pharmaceuticals, aerospace, services, and other high-tech products. It is also a major exporter of agricultural products such as corn, cotton, soybean, wheat, and meat products. 
\fs24 \

\fs32 The U.S., however, has sizable trade and budget deficits. Domestically, it faces stagnation of family income among poorer economic groups. Between 1940 and 1981 the U.S. was the world's largest creditor. Since 1985, it has been the world's largest debtor. 
\fs24 \

\fs32 Fig. 2 shows the annual percentage change in U.S. GDP for the period 1993-2008. By comparison with other major industrialized nations, the U.S. has done well, particularly relative to Japan and the Euro Area in recent years. The terrorist attacks in 2001 caused a drop in the GDP growth rate, and the recent financial crisis caused the deepest recession since the Great Depression with a significant increase in the unemployment rate, reaching 9.7% in July 2009.
\fs24 \

\fs32 Fig. 3 depicts the shares of U.S. goods and services trade as a percentage of GDP. It shows that imports as a percentage of GDP are growing faster than exports in recent years. In June 2009, the total exports in goods and services reached $125.8 billion and imports $152.8 billion, resulting in a goods and services decit of $27 billion.
\fs21\fsmilli10667 \up10 \

\fs32 \up0 Canada is the most important trading partner in the total U.S. trade. China is second, followed by Mexico, Japan, Germany, and the U.K.
\fs24 \

\fs32 The current account measures the balance of trade in goods, services, unilateral transfer payments, and net foreign investment income. Fig. 4 shows the U.S. current account balance as a percent of GDP. It shows a persistent decit, reaching beyond 6% in 2005 but showing an improvement since then. The U.S. has been spending more than its income and has been financing this spending by selling its financial assets abroad. The increasing foreign accumulation of U.S. financial assets could have a significant effect on the ability of the U.S. economy to service or retire its debt in the future. 
\fs24 \

\fs32 The U.S. current account decit decreased dramatically from a decit of 154.9 billion in the fourth quarter of 2008 to $101.5 billion (preliminary) in the first quarter of 2009. This latest figure is the smallest decit since the fourth quarter of 2001. The recession triggered by the recent financial crisis greatly reduced the U.S. demand for foreign goods. 
\fs24 \

\fs32 Fig. 5 shows the annual U.S. government debt and decit as a percentage of GDP from 1990 through 2008. From 1990 to 1997, the U.S. government ran consecutive deficits, reaching a peak of 6% of GDP in 1992. From 1998 to 2000, it ran a budget surplus. But since 2001, the budget deficit has reappeared and continues to be a major source of America's current account deficit. The recent financial crisis further worsened the decit.
\fs24 \

\fs32 U.S. gross government debt as a percentage of GDP increased from 1990 to 1993, reaching a peak of around 72%.
\fs21\fsmilli10667 \up10  
\fs32 \up0 It then declined steadily to a recent low of around 55% in 2000 but has since increased again to over 70%. The U.S. national debt has continued to increase by an average of $3.88 billion per day since September 28, 2007, exceeding $11.6 trillion in August 2009.
\fs21\fsmilli10667 \up10  
\fs32 \up0 With an estimated U.S. population of about 306 million,
\fs21\fsmilli10667 \up10  
\fs32 \up0 each citizen's share of this debt exceeds $38,000.
\fs24 \
\
\
}